# Allen stability issues incident report

Over the last few weeks we've been experiencing random restarts of the pod resulting minor outage of Allen
so this report covers the details of the nature of the outage and our response.

## Issue Summary

Allen was experiencing random restarts over the last few weeks which in turn caused outage of the service
for a very short time on random intervals.

## Timeline

- 2023-09-26 - Released v0.208.0
- 2023-09-29 - Random restarts started happening
- 2023-10-05 - Started with debugging and monitoring of logs and metrics
- 2023-10-09 - Increased timeout for probes and issue was resolved

## Root Cause

Default timeouts for readiness and liveness probes to 1 second caused the restarts.

## Resolution and recovery

After a thorough debugging, inspecting logs and monitoring metrics in Context and SignalFX we concluded
there is nothing out of the ordinary - no memory or CPU issues or failures in the code that would cause the
termination of the process.

Inspecting the specs for the liveness and readiness probes we noticed that we're using some default settings
in particular the timeouts for both were set to 1 second. We simply assumed that due to the increased background jobs and usage of the service
our backend sometimes takes more then one second to respond to the healthcheck and we just increased the timeout to 5 seconds and voila everything went back to normal.

## Corrective and Preventative Measures

We tweaked the settings for the readiness and liveness probes and set the timeout to 5 seconds.
Instead of leaning on defaults we'll aim to always be explicit and configure the values based on our needs.
